Despite the innumerable and oft-discussed ways in which we are vulnerable to them, terrorist attacks are rare. An attack occurs only when a perpetrator vile enough to commit it, a motive strong enough to rouse him to action, a target germane to the motive, and the wherewithal to act all converge at the same place and time. It follows that anything that raises the odds that these four factors will indeed come together will increase the incidence of terrorism. Several trends associated with globalization?the greater ease of moving people, resources, and information across borders, the greater transnational reach of institutional structures?thus have sustained or worsened international terrorism even as other trends, such as the precipitous decline of Marxist terrorism at the end of the Cold War, have tended to lessen it. In today’s globalizing world, terrorists can reach their targets more easily, their targets are exposed in more places, and news and ideas that inflame people to resort to terrorism spread more widely and rapidly than in the past.

Today’s globalized terrorism is exemplified by Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, the mastermind of the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center and later an abortive plot to bomb a dozen U.S. airliners out of the sky in the Far East. Of Palestinian extraction and raised in Kuwait, Yousef (who is now serving a 240-year sentence in a U.S. prison) was educated formally at a technical institute in the United Kingdom. He received his terrorist education at camps in Afghanistan. He came to the United States in September of 1992, organized the attack on the World Trade Center, and left the day the bomb went off. He later surfaced in Manila, where he put together the airline plot. When he was finally arrested in Pakistan in 1995, he was planning more terrorist operations elsewhere in Asia.

Globetrotters and Infrastructures

Terrorism’s reach is now worldwide in two respects. First, individuals such as Yousef travel widely. The same easing of border controls?especially notable in Europe?that has been a convenience to businessmen and tourists has also made it easier for terrorists to reach tempting targets and willing collaborators. Globetrotting by peripatetic terrorists has made ad hoc cabals, as distinct from large, well-known groups, a larger part of international terrorism. The group that struck the World Trade Center, for example, did not exist until its members, foreigners of diverse nationalities, coalesced in New York for that one attack. That they belonged to no terrorist group when they entered the United States underscores how the mere movement of highly discontented people can bring about the malignant combination of ringleader, collaborators, and target, despite passport checks at international borders.

Second, terrorists have extended their reach by building globe-circling infrastructures. Lebanese Hizballah, whose presence now reaches six continents, has led the way. But other terrorist organizations, with agendas as diverse as the Palestinian group Hamas or the Sri Lankan Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, maintain cells far from the lands where their goals and grievances are focused. The infrastructures extend the geographic options for attacks?witness Hizballah’s bombings of Israeli-associated targets in Buenos Aires in the early 1990s?but more often they further recruitment, fund-raising, movement of materiel, and other support functions. The overseas cells grow up most often near sympathetic expatriate communities (such as the Shia Lebanese in the border region of Argentina, Brazil, and Paraguay?the heart of Hizballah’s activity in South America), but they also settle elsewhere in the Western world simply to take advantage of superior civil liberties, social services, transportation, and communications.
